'''Files for dynamics propagation''' <br />
☐ Have you set up all of the files for propagating the dynamics using your dynamics engine? 

'''System implementation ("system.py")''' <br />
☐ Is "self.pcoord_len" set to the number of data points that corresponds to the frequency with which the dynamics engine outputs the progress coordinate? Note: Many MD engines (e.g. GROMACS) output the initial point (i.e. zero). <br />
☐ Are the bins in the expected positions? You can easily view the positions of the bins using a Python interpreter.

'''Initializing the simulation ("init.sh")''' <br />
☐ Is the directory structure for the trajectory output files consistent with specifications in the master configuration file ("west.cfg")? <br />
☐ Are the basis (bstate) states, and if applicable, target states (tstate), specified correctly? 

'''Calculating the progress coordinate for initial states ("get_pcoord.sh")''' <br />
☐ Ensure that the procedure to extract the progress coordinate works by calculating your progress coordinate manually for one (or more) basis state files. <br />
☐ Examine structure(s) of the initial states using visualization software (e.g. VMD, PyMOL, etc.) to verify that the structure(s) match the progress coordinate in the .h5 file <br />
☐ If your initialization ("init.sh") gives an error message indicating the "incorrect shape" of the progress coordinate, check that get_pcoord.sh is not writing to a single file. If this is the case, w_init will crash since multiple threads will be simultaneously writing to a single file. To fix this issue, add $$ to the file name (e.g. change "OUT=dist.xvg" to "OUT=dist_$$.xvg") in get_pcoord.sh. <br />

'''Segment implementation ("runseg.sh")''' <br />
☐ Ensure that the progress coordinate is being calculated correctly by manually running a single dynamics segment ("tau") for a single trajectory walker. Check that the input is correct for the analysis programs. <br />
☐ Are you feeding the information (e.g., coordinates, velocities, etc.) that is required for restarting the trajectories? <br />
☐ Check the seg_log file to ensure that the progress coordinate is being calculated as intended. <br />

'''Storage''' <br />
☐  WESTPA simulations, depending on the stochastic engine and parameters you are using, can generate a lot of data. Make sure you have enough space before starting the simulation! <br />
☐  It's also a good practice to have a plan for backing up the simulation. Consider using tar to compress past iterations for easier backup for the future. Keep file sizes =<300GB at a maximum. <br />

'''Log of simulation progress ("west.h5")''' <br />
☐ Check that the first iteration has been initialized, i.e. typing 

 h5ls west.h5/iterations 

at the command line gives 

 iter_00000001            Group

In addition, the progress coordinate should be initialized as well, i.e. using the command <br /> 

 h5ls -d west.h5/iterations/iter_00000001/pcoord

shows that the array is populated by zeros and the first point is the value calculated by get_pcoord.sh:
 pcoord                   Dataset {10, 21, 1}
    Data:
        (0,0,0) 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,
        (2,15,0) 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,
        (5,8,0) 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0,
        (8,2,0) 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0
<br />

'''Analysis''' <br />
☐  If you are running the analysis on shared computing resources, be sure to use the --serial flag with the analysis tool. Otherwise, many of the included tools default to parallel mode (e.g., w_assign), which will create as many Python threads as there are CPU cores available. <br />
