Suitable weighted ensemble (WE) parameters such as the progress coordinate, binning scheme, and resampling interval (τ) depend on the particular system under investigation and the particular process of interest.  Below are general recommendations that aim to assist in choosing these parameters.

We strongly recommend careful study of the [https://westpa.github.io/westpa/overview.html: WE Overview] and especially the section on limitations as you plan your WESTPA computation.  Understanding the basic theory and limitations up can save you a lot of time and headaches.  Every method has its limitations and some systems may be too challenging for WE or other approaches.  Another discussion of path-sampling limitations generally can be found [http://statisticalbiophysicsblog.org/?p=115: here].

Currently, choosing WE parameters is something of an art, although the hope is to automate some aspects of parameter selection in the future.  For now, we suggest what may be considered a semi-systematic trial-and-error procedure.

==Guidelines:==
# Choose the simplest 1D coordinate, bin size, τ, and number of trajectories/bin based on your intuition.  Note that all of these WE parameters are correlated. See also Table 1 with examples from the literature. 
# To identify a suitable τ value, it can be helpful to perform a WESTPA scaling test [will provide a link for directions here]. The τ value should be sufficiently long such that (i) at least one trajectory progresses to the next bin, (ii) the dynamics are the main bottleneck with little overhead (e.g., from starting up the dynamics engine), and (iii) the results are not [https://westpa.github.io/westpa/overview.html: skewed towards the fastest transitions.] 
# If your system gets stuck (stops making progress), consider reducing the τ value, using a finer bin spacing and/or increase the number of trajectories/bin.
# If none of the above work, your progress coordinate may be missing orthogonal, slow degrees of freedom that are relevant to the process you are aiming to sample. To address this issue, try to develop a 2D progress coordinate.  Note that additional dimensions in the progress coordinate create a corresponding increase in the number of bins - and hence cost of the WE run.  Therefore, considering using nested coordinates.
# Bear in mind binning strategies that are not based on user-defined coordinates, but instead employ Voronoi cells potentially in conjunction with a “string” or WExplore strategy.  The WESTPA community will continue researching the important topic of self-adjusting adaptive bins.
# If all of your best efforts with WE fail to generate transitions, re-consider the physical restraints that may be present in your system.  There may be something about the system preventing the transition, at least on the timescales accessible to WE simulation.  Re-read the [https://westpa.github.io/westpa/overview.html: WE Overview.]

{| class="wikitable"
|+Table 1: Examples of WE parameters
|-
|System name
|System size
|Force Field
|Solvent
|Transition type
|WE Parameters 
|Reference
|-
|P53 peptide and MDM2 protein
|?? atoms
|AMBER ff99SB-ILDN
|GB/SA implicit solvent model
|Protein-peptide association
|2D progress coordinate: heavy-atom RMSD of p53 peptide relative to its MDM2-bound conformation following alignment on (i) MDM2 and (ii) itself.
Binning: ??
Sampling: = 50 ps; 396 iterations
|Zwier et al.,
J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 7: 3440 (2016)
|-
|Estrogen Receptor
|>50,000 atoms
|AMBER ff14SB
|TIP3P
|Helix motion
|Progress coordinate:  angular change of vector along helix Binning:  60 bins of equal width
Sampling:  tau = 5 ps
|
|-
|Neuro-muscular junction (spatially resolved)
|One active zone: 26 synaptic vesicles + 52 Ca2+ channels + 10^6 buffer sites
|MCell model; see reference
|N.A.
|Vesicle release
|2D Bins: number of Ca2+ bound to a vesicle number of activated receptors per vesicle (unit width each dimension). =6 s; 500 iterations; 100 WE runs
|Donovan et al., [http://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004611: PLoS Comput Biol 12(2):
E1004611 (2016)]
|-
|FcRI signaling network (well-mixed)
|354 species; 3,680 reactions
|Mass-action kinetics implemented in BioNetGen
|N.A.
|N.A. [Exploration of model outcomes]
|60 bins of unit width in the counts of a marker species; =0.6s; 100 iterations; multiple WE runs
|Donovan et al., [http://aip.scitation.org/doi/abs/10.1063/1.4821167: J. Chem. Phys. 139, 115105 (2013).]
|}




