To edit a Wiki page, you will first need to log into your GitHub account. If you do not have an account, you can sign up for one at https://github.com.

== Four Steps to Editing a Wiki Page == 
# Click on the "Edit" button in the upper right hand corner above the text box and select "MediaWiki" from the pull-down menu of the "Edit mode:" above the text box.
# Make changes in the text box. It can be helpful to write a short message in the "Edit Message" field at the bottom of the page explaining the changes.
# Click on the "Preview" tab in the upper left hand corner above the text box to see how your newly-edited page will look before committing the changes.
# Click on the "Save Page" button in the lower right hand corner of the page.
Once you learn how, editing a page takes seconds! Reading wiki pages should present some chances to put those basics into practice.  Get your feet wet with these examples of easy edits:
* If you see a typo, fix it!
* If an instruction can be more clear, clarify it!
* If information is outdated, you can update it if you have time, but if not, at least leave a note (like "-NEEDS UPDATING-") for your fellow wiki users!

== Additional Pointers ==
Here are some helpful hints for easy and effective contributing. Feel free to add your own!
* To make a page look organized (or, to understand what you're seeing when you look at the Edit page), you'll need to familiarize yourself with the MediaWiki markup language. You could do so by looking at the [http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting MediaWiki Formatting Help Page]. Another way is to learn by example: when you see formatted text on a page, check the edit tab to see how it's done.